XXXX’s work has been part of the artistic discourse since she began exhibiting in the mid-1970s, but over the last decade a new generation has been inspired by radical inventiveness. The past 10 years have been particularly productive for Genzken, who, with a new language of found objects and collage, has created several bodies of work that have redefined assemblage for a new era. These groups of sculptures range from smaller, diorama-like works to room-filling installations.Through the works, XXXX has created an array of relationships with viewers, inviting them to play an active role in the artist’s creative process. XXXX uses a clear language to produce objects, events, rituals, and actions that are consummated, both materially and mentally, by the audience.Simple and poetic messages, the “instructions” invite viewers to perform certain actions. They formulate questions about the conceptual basis of the work of art, viewers’ participation in its material production, the ephemeral, and the desanctification of the art object.The exhibition project contains many discrete instances: the show itself in the Museums’s galleries and the exhibition and communication of many works in the public space (signs, buses, billboards), the mass media (newspapers, magazines, radio, and television), and the social networks where XXXX is also a point of reference.This show examines the parallelism between the artist’s work in painting and in performance, specifically in relation to his political-poetic interventions, and how that dialogue leads to  actions, documentations, and pictorial work. Throughout all the career, XXXX has done highly original work involving collaborative projects with a social orientation. His early paintings explored forms of collaboration and circuits of economic and cultural exchange. These images would later play a crucial role in the development of the metaphorical, mythical and social contents and implications of the artist’s actions. In the three series produced over the course of nearly a decade, the artist takes distance from the figurative painting as allegorical representation of the actions that he engaged in during the same period. Instead, this work develops a much more reflexive pictorial language that ultimately becomes another form of action.This show comprises a series of architectural additions to the gallery space and the presence of a group of dancers who respond to conflicting choreographic instructions: to stay intimately bound together while remaining fiercely separate. Trained by rugby players and a movie director, and following the logic of a “stand-up scrum”—a daily meeting often used in collaborative, responsive practices such as software development—the dancers have learned a set of techniques taken from contact sports, management strategies, and on-screen romance. Through attempts to seduce, defend, and self-organize, the group has devised a sequence of movements in response to simple tasks set by the artist. Using the gallery’s condition of high visibility, XXXX considers the characteristics of corporate and museum architectures by amplifying and exaggerating certain qualities in the space through the use of soft acoustic panels, daylight bulbs, and background noise. Through this intersection of bodies and architectures of management, XXXX examines how power presents itself when it comes into contact with the human body.XXXX has produced a celebrated body of work, including paintings, drawings, sculpture and prints. Establishing as a pre-eminent painter of modern life, he was influenced by films, billboard advertising, music, poetry and the artist’s close circle of friends and family. The portraits and landscapes are characterised by their flatness of colour and fluidity of line, reinventing both genres within the context of abstract painting and contemporary image-making.The museum takes landscape as its focus, bringing together XXXX’s extraordinarily productive output of recent years alongside select works from the past two decades. The landscape paintings exemplify the artist’s life-long quest to capture the present tense in paint. the exhibition explores the ways in which our connections to the past are actively produced, maintained, and refuted. In this show, the artist premieres a new body of work, including a series of 16mm portraits of anthropologists, activists, and artists working in Latinamerica. XXXX’s films capture the aspirations and imagined futures of those who are deeply invested in alternative models of being, using them as allegories for larger political possibilities in the region.Over the years, the artist has employed psychotropic drugs, flashing lights, and other stimuli to potentially alter the viewer’s mental state. His new site-specific installation on the second floor, the work of art flickers back and forth on a central axis, creating an immersive, hallucinatory experience. The work is paired with a recreation of Höller’s Experience Corridor in which the viewer is given the choice to undertake a number of self-experiments. The whole work is an invitation to re-imagine the way in which we move through the world and the relationships we build as he asks us to reconsider what we think we know about ourselves.This exhibition explores the relationship between the two forms, looking at how performance artists use photography and how photography is in itself a performance.Alongside the main exhibition, contemporary artists and designers have been invited to respond to the artist’s work across the building. These projects will take the form of an architectural intervention.Filming, instructing and cajoling her own hand to imitate the bronze hands of sculptures on display at Tate Britain, XXXX plays with  given expectations of the role of the artist working in gallery and museum Learning programmes. Moving between the different positions of interpreter, narrator, facilitator, expert, coach, learner, teacher and performer, the show proposes learning as a process of experimentation, play and mimicry.The show developed from the artist’s ongoing attempts to organize her thoughts on motherhood in history, music, art, and personal experience—or, in her words, to “locate the art-momentum” hole in contemporary art discourse.” Initially, this interactive project was conceived as a series of essay-letters written (and then read aloud) by one of the artist’s  alter egos —and addressed to her children, sister, and mother. Working through this alter ego allowed XXXX the freedom to use writing as an integral part of the visual studio practice.  Entering this space evokes the experience of stepping into a painting, informed by XXXX’s formal training as a figurative painter.XXXX  is an artist with an exceptional ability to contemplate and derive meaning from his interior world. If, to paraphrase Pascal, society’s miseries come from not being able to sit quietly alone in a room and think, then Therrien is the welcome antithesis, harking from a dwindling breed for whom observation and solitary thought represent time well spent. The rooms in which he does this are the backdrop to his art and life.But as rooms represent only one lens through which this artist’s work can be viewed, it might first be helpful to illuminate the broader context in brief. Yet here the line of representation inevitably blurs, as XXXX nudges his forms toward abstraction and surrealism through softened edges, shifts in scale, lush but strange colors, manipulated perspective, and shapes and imagery that repeat but become altered over time.Inside, each room presents an image, here suggesting an expanded definition of the term whereby each picture has multiple dimensions and operates with divergent intent. The first room, containing a hand-crafted sculpture of tambourines on the floor and a pair of painted brown pants on board on the back wall, gives the effect of a drawing in space: namely, a flat image popped into three dimensions. The experience draws the viewer in, as in the pants and tambourines composition, but in this case further evokes a childlike compulsion to crash through the doors—a desire ultimately left frustrated and unfulfilled, as the viewer cannot touch the work.XXXX work may seem lighthearted at first, but his sensitive explorations of the interconnectedness among diverse individuals have make the artist earned serious attention. XXXX then advertised citywide in radio ads and print media, inviting fans to perform karaoke versions of their favorite songs. The show makes visible the wide range of emotions the camera provokes, including embarrassment, failure, honesty, sincerity, self-consciousness, anxiety, and sentimentality. Simultaneously revealing pop culture’s ubiquity and the personal meaning each song holds for the performers, XXXX contributes to a larger movement in contemporary art—one in which questions of performance intersect with trajectories of identity formation, self-expression, and confession.XXXX presents an entirely new body of work in animation, sculpture, and drawing, highlighting new directions in her creative process. Sculptures are displayed in pairs to show the objects in two separate states of being, while their dimensional forms are abstracted, flattened, and reflected in accompanying drawings. A new work, made specifically for this installation, consists of two videos projected on opposite walls.XXXX’s work, which defies simple classification by medium, encompasses delicate and moving explorations of humor and failure, narrative and time, the human form and abstraction, and presence and mortality.Beyond showcasing a wide spectrum of visual representations of the Arab world, artists who constituted or used the collection addressed radical questions about photographic documents and their function in our times. Projects engaged the writing of histories concerning the practice of ordinary people, small events and a society in general, resulting in new discourses related to the medium.The exhibition will look at the dual status of the art itself, as an archive of photographic and collecting practices and as an artist-led initiative that left a visible mark on the artistic landscape of its times, signalling significant moments in its history and the critical debates generated throughout its evolution. Past projects and new artist productions related to the collection will be presented. 